So that's how the employee can
deliver what?
The impact is and the employee
can influence how this impact is
delivered by being open to
feedback by asking the feedback,
talking to their peers, manager,
et cetera, to understand how to
find tune home the work the
employee does. You can actively
actually create an inclusive
work environment so that
everybody in the team has a
sense of belonging and can put
their best foot forward. And
finally, beyond the lookout for
opportunities, all that each
point of time to understand.
How can you not only do your own
work, but also contribute
towards others? Success and
leverage other people's work?
Start says somebody of how to
employee can influence their
rewards right by influencing
what is delivered and how it's
delivered.
With this, let me hand over to
Puneet to talk about the rewards
overview process.
So to summarize, the PND
philosophy for Microsoft is one
side of the coin and the rewards
is the other side of the coin.
Alright, thank you Abhishek.
So I think the logical segue
from the last section is now
Abhishek talked about the
objectives behind this whole
process and we're gonna switch
gears and talk a little bit
about the actual process itself.
What happens. I think a lot of
people in the team are fairly
new, so they wouldn't have
really understood like the whole
process. And does it happen over
weeks or months and you know
what exactly happens as part of
the process. So we're gonna go
through that now and it's
interesting like it's it's it's
beyond 15 August.
A lot of you would know that
this is the the rewards time, so
no even more opportune because
this is the right time for us to
be on the same page in terms of
how the process works, right? So
we'll talk about this. So the
first thing I want to start by
is talking about what are the
guiding principles that managers
follow in deciding rewards. One
of the most important questions
that people might have on their
mind is how am I rewards are
determined? What does my manager
really thinking? What sort of
things that they're evaluating
me on and what are the
principles that they follow.
So I want to talk about four
very important principles. A lot
of these often come as
questions. Also, either people
have. So the first one is 1 year
one reward.
I think this is very important
because uh, very often, you
know, people will feel like,
hey, I I'm doing a lot of work
close to my reward cycle when
the discussions happen, but then
I did a lot of work earlier in
the year as well. Then there's
my manager, still remember all
the work that happened
throughout the year. The short
answer is absolutely yes.
Like you're rewards cycle
process has to be about the work
that you've done across the
whole year, right? So making
sure that everything that's
happened in the air is actually
accounted for. Your manager is
actually taking into account all
your contributions throughout
the year. There is a counter
thing that also happens to this.
There are people feel like, hey,
maybe last year I I hadn't done
well. Is that going to impact
what I did this year? And the
answer is like, no, because this
year rewards are gonna be purely
about what you did in this year.
And then the definition of the
year in this case, because it
discussion really happen in
around May, June timeframe is
the fiscal year definition which
is you know the June to may time
frame. So that's what one year
one reward stands for right.
We're making sure that only the
things that you've done in this
year are the ones that really
impact and there's no Halo
effect. It's not like the things
that you've done in the last two
months have a greater impact
than what you've done earlier
months. So that's very
important. Second is predefined
distribution.
Is it that you know if you're
coming into a meeting like this,
you already have to fit people
into some curve like the short
answer is, no, that's not the
case. There used to be a time,
and there are places elsewhere
in the industry where the system
a norm, but in Microsoft now
that's not the norm, right? We
don't do that, which means to
say, it's not like if you have a
team of X people, then at
percent, people have to be, you
know, an average dating only 10%
can be exceptional and things
like that. Like that's there's
nothing like that. Right.
There's no predefined curve
right, but the reality is that
there is a budget right? It's
not like, you know, teams have
unlimited budget, so you can you
can basically give any rewards
that you want eventually and
I'll talk about this in the
process. There is an annual
budget that gets decided both
for merit increases and for
promotion. And you know it's
every organization groups
responsibility to fit the whole
organization as part of that
budget, right. So that's very
important. So there is no
predefined distribution but.
The actual rewards that that get
distributed account for the
overall budget that gets
allocated to their organization.
3rd is like no ratings.
Uh, I think there was probably.
There was a time in 2000s or
maybe if I'm mistaken, two other
people who've been there where
they used to be actual ratings
that used to be given to people
and it's an industry as well,
this one, this one particularly
reminds me of that. Amir Khan
seen in three idiots right there
when he tops the exam and he
sits in front with the director
and his friends are at the back
bench and he questions like, you
know, I don't have to do this.
And that's literally the
philosophy like, you know, you
don't. I mean there's there is
no way you can drive and
inclusive culture of growth.
If you're giving people like
ratings and saying like, hey,
this is your rating, this is
your rating. So the company is
actually doing has done away
with that. There's no rating,
right. It's important for
managers to be able to
articulate how somebody's
performing. And also at the same
time reflected in terms of
rewards. But beyond that, there
is no rating that is given to an
individual, right? Just wanted
to be sure that that's the case.
The 4th one. Abhishek already
touched upon higher rewards for
higher impact.
See, the reality is all of us
have gone through very similar
interview process. There are
amazingly talented people in
Microsoft. All your peers are
talented, which is great, right?
That's the type of company we
want. And so in an environment
like this.
Like Abhishek was saying, there
are important things. The three
circles that he showed about
being able to utilize somebody's
work to be able to build on it,
you contributing to somebody's
work and then our individual
impact to business. All of these
significantly matter and people
who sort of driven higher,
exceptional outcomes based on
those are the ones that are
typically going to get higher
rewards than others, right. So I
think the philosophy of
differentiation, the fact that
if somebody has done
exceptionally well on those
circles.
Uh is is something that is
factored in as part of the
conversation?
Yeah, I'm guessing there no
question on the chat so far.
Alright, awesome. So uh, with
with that in mind, we'll move to
the actual process itself,
right? And a little bit of the
timelines and we'll deep dive
into it now to start the
process, right. It's very
important for first for managers
to have or form a basis of how
everybody on their team is
doing, right and how do they do
that? They have to determine
impact for every individual on
their team and they rely on a
number of data sources to be
able to do that. And I'm going
to quickly move ahead and just
talk about what these data
sources are.
Right. So managers, when they
look at their teams, they're
going to look at a bunch of data
sources to understand how
somebody is doing, right. So one
example is connects, right? So
I'm gonna simply talk about four
things as individuals that I
think you should all know. Think
about that get triangulated to
forming, you know, your
assessment one is.
It's very important to know your
career stage.
And your whole profile like, you
know, a senior engineer versus
you know, an SDE two may have
different role profiles and
different set of challenges that
they're working towards, right.
So first of all, as employees,
it's very important for you to
know at your career stage what's
your profile and what sort of
our appropriate level
appropriate challenges for you.
Based on that, you are actually
going to work with the manager
and define your core priorities.
Those core priorities really go
into your connect, you have your
connect is basically an archival
of the core priorities and
deliverables that you and your
manager have together agreed
upon that you're going to
deliver in the next six months.
And then you're gonna again
revisit in six months, right? So
you understand your core profile
role profile and your
challenges.
You have decided your core
priorities based on that with
your manager, which is, you
know, the connect and then you
have regular one on ones with
the managers in some of these
you know you also get feedback
real time feedback and how
you're doing towards that. So
the first one which is the
connects and the one on ones
becomes a very important element
that goes into.
No, I think that the manager
looks at right. They will
basically look at your
contributions and weigh them
against the core priorities that
you both had decided together,
right? So that's a very
important one. Second is
informal and formal feedback.
This is where Microsoft being
such a large company, a lot of
the work is collaborative. You
are most likely not going to be
working in isolation. You are
going to be working with many
partners. You know your peers
across disciplines. So it's very
important for managers to get
perspectives from other people
who have worked with you also.
And this can happen both
formally and informally. You
know, there's a tool in which
you can share perspective and
you can also see what others are
talking about, your interactions
and how they enjoyed working
with you. And this can be given
informally also to a manager
just in person. So that's the
second other important thing
that becomes a very important
input parameter for a manager to
look. The caveat I would say is.
Is the feedback can be
situational, which means you may
have had different situations
while working with different
people.
It's purely up to your manager
to be able to internalize and
look at that feedback in the
light of you know, what the
situation might be right? So so
managers have that privilege.
Third is overall observations. I
mean you're, you know, you're
working with your manager and
your team, the results that you
have achieved like objectives
thing, it's about outcomes,
right. So overall observations
on that and most importantly how
the outcomes were achieved is
very important and a single
person can achieve the same
results in two very different
ways, right? Two examples has to
give you.
One you know, you have an
opportunity to providentially
collaborate with the other team
and reuse some components and
work with them and build on it.
Versus you could say like, hey,
it's going to be very
complicated for me to
collaborate with them. Let me
just go and build everything
from scratch. You may attend,
you may achieve the same results
in both cases, but somebody was
actually part of the team,
collaborated and built on top of
existing tech where it made
sense.
Uh has had a better how of doing
that, but somebody just, you
know, literally duplicating the
sources same way, you know,
like, if there's a complicated
interaction as a product
manager, you may have had or is
a designer.
You could say I know no, I'm
gonna manage my stakeholder now
how to do it and only escalate
at the right time. The other
person could have achieved the
same outcome, but you know
regularly escalating and
causing, you know, stress across
teams and things like that.
Right, so so it's the how is
very important on how you do it.
And then lastly, insights from
people discussions. So that's
the next part we're going to
come to which is people
discussion and we'll talk a
little bit about.
What exactly happens in people
discussion, right? So. So yeah.
So that's the second part,
right? You would have, I mean,
for those of you in the system
for longer seen sometime around
May or June, there are these one
or two days where it suddenly
all your managers disappear and
you're thinking like you know
one or two days everybody's in
the room and what's happening
that's this process, right?
That's the people discussion
that happens.
That it's a I mean it's
definitely, you know, many hours
of discussion, but no, all
managers sensually would get
into a room. So little bit of
like what happens in the room
really.
Uh manager essentially get
together. The whole idea is to
have objectivity for the process
across the system, which means
if if one manager is coming up
with a set of.
A contribution impacts for their
team and another manager is
coming with their team, making
sure that they're all
consistent. There's a common
philosophy and objectives that
are being followed and so the
whole purpose of that discussion
is essentially to get to a
common understanding. So there
are common themes that
everybody's following, right.
It's not distinct between teams,
right? So objectivity and
fairness are really the the key
goals. I would say for the
people discussion that happens
now, people discussion don't
really mean that every single
individual on the team is
getting discussed.
In many cases, there are a few
specific examples that might get
discussed. You know, somebody's,
you know, maybe spent many years
in a role and has significantly
changed in terms of the
contribution. It'll be a good
example to discuss with the rest
of the team. So there are many
such specific examples that get
discussed. It's not necessary
that every individual will get
discussed, right. So part of
first Step manager uses all
these sources.
Makes an impact contribution
assessment for all their team.
Then the manager walks into the
people discussion with all of
these so you can think every
manager walks in the people
discussion with these so we will
quickly go over that. This is
just a quick drill down into
what happens in people
discussion. Like I said there
was a common understanding and
everybody comes up with examples
and how to make impact right.
Essential outcome is you know
you should have awareness so
that both promotion and merit
increase get discussed as part
of that meeting. And what's very
important because other people
feel like is promotion at
different discussion is merit
increase at different discussion
no, they both happen as a part
of these people discuss in the
same room.
Like so third, like what happens
after people discussion now,
once the discussion has
happened, managers will actually
been a part of that discussion
are going to go back with
certain follow-ups, right? It
times that assessments or their
recommendations might have been
a little different than what the
room eventually agreed upon on
things. So they're gonna go back
and they're gonna refine their
recommendations based on what
got decided in the room. Right.
So essentially, this is the
process of making sure all
managers are aligned and they're
basically talking the same
language when it comes to.
Benchmarks, but this has
happened. You can imagine like
at minor abhishek's level we
essentially.
See latte. The whole team has
gone through this process, right
and then we further update,
let's say it goes to, in our
case to Rajesh. And so there is
going to be levels of
organizational leaders who will
have a budget that they have to
work towards. So this is this
part of this process which is
called budget reconciliation,
right. So once all of this is
decided.
Every leader is trying to make
sure that their organization is
balanced in terms of budget. You
typically need an organization
of a reasonable size for you to
say that, hey, I can balance
against a budget, but presume
that happens to say at
abhishek's level for his
organization that then passes on
to Rajesh to look at overall
edge to see if he's balanced on
budget. And when I say balanced
on budget means every year he's
going to have a merit budget,
right? And then he's also going
to have a promotion budget.
This is.
Alright, I switching like this
better. Yeah, so this is the
budget reconciliation part. The
4th part of this process.
And then last part of the
process is basically the
rewards, the discussion itself,
once the budget reconciliation
happens, let's just say Rajesh
is level is goes to Michael,
Rajesh, chance, Sathya. And then
I think at a company level it's
frozen. And then there is a 6
state beyond. Watch. The
snapshot opens, the snapshot is
essentially your the actual
rewards.
They're so so the tool basically
that talks about the actual
rewards, opens up for managers
to be able to communicate that
to their team, right? And that's
the that's the one that is
talked about, the date that it
happens usually most years is
August 15th and your rewards get
effective on 1st September. So
that's how this fifth process
works. And like you would have
seen, this is whole like almost
like a three month process like
in it starts with May and June
it goes all the way up to the
rewards discussion.
Right. So with that, uh, we can
go on to the common questions in
myths.
Uh, we thought there are a few
questions that we hear a lot
rather than just opening up the
room, we can start by answering
some of these and then if there
are more happy to take that on.
Uh, so the first one is it has
an individual. What can I do to
earn higher rewards? Right. And
this goes back to the principles
that we talked about, like what
principles do managers use to
decide rewards, right. So first
one is like have frequent
discussion with your managers,
using connects. Don't take it
literally. Like this doesn't
mean you know if you're meeting
a major every week, you're gonna
have good rewards. But the
essence is that you need to be
in touch with the manager
regularly so that your manager
and you are on the same page in
terms of your priorities and how
you're heading.
I think that's really critical.
You don't want to be in a
situation where you know after
six months you realize that,
hey, I was on my own trajectory
in manager. I never singed or
no, we we didn't realize that I
was talking towards different
goals. So getting our priorities
right and being in touch with
your manager regularly on how
you're progressing towards is a
good thing to do. The second
one, I'm not going to repeat
three cycles of the fact we
talked about making sure that
you know your priorities are
across that for managers, it's
beyond that. It is also the
model coach care that Abhishek
talked about.
And then lastly, yeah, your
looking always looking for
additional opportunities for you
to create a bigger impact,
right, not just be siloed to
what you're doing, but you know
potential like, hey, can I do
something that's going to help
my team at large? So things like
that are gonna definitely up
your chances of earning higher
rewards, they'll give you for
the second one.
So so we have this alternating
questions between Puneet and me
for the fact so that we can
hopefully have a balanced view
for all the questions over here.
Let me go to the next one now.
That was the next one.
All right. So Pritam, I spoke
about this will there was I got
last year influence for. I'm
gonna get this year.
And they, PRINCIPAL of here is
the one year wonder what's
principle right? It's important
to know that it's one year. It's
not the last two months. It's
how the first three months it's
saw the previous year, it saw
the previous years, it's one
year one reward, right. And it's
important to note because impact
varies across the years based on
opportunity project.
Different circumstances, right?
And the and the work and the
impact that you had this year
will determine your reward this
year.
OK.
And and again to clarify, reward
basically means merit, increase
bonus and stock award as as
applicable.
Sure. So thank you, bunch of
bunch of employees. We here are
news. Let me just go a bit more
into detail into what merit
increase bonus and stock awards
means right. Merit increase is
an increase in salary. OK. So
that's a percentage increase in
salary every year which is again
based on impact.
Bonus is is, is is a percentage
of your bonus eligible salary,
right? So what this means is
that over the year, what's the
total salary you have got
working in teams. So if you if
you work for the full 12 months,
there are 12 months salaries of
bonus eligible salary if you
joined later if you join if you
worked for only eight months in
the team you join Microsoft say
last year in November or
whatever, right.
Then a bonus eligible salary is
your salary from the time you
joined till June this year.
That's your bonus eligible
salary and a bonus will be
calculated as a percentage of
your bonus eligible salary.
OK. That's the second part of
your reward.
And third party reward is a
stock award, right? And and once
again based on it each at each
level there's a target Stocker
wall and you get either higher
or as appropriate based on an
impact.
Yeah. So these are three aspects
of your of your merit.
Uh. Of your afterwards?
I think the next one that we
hear is I received rewards in
the middle of my arrange.
Is that a good outcome? Uh, the
reality is like, look, I talked
about, you know, amazingly
talented people in Microsoft,
right? And the fact that.
You already have expectations
that your level and your
priorities are set like that,
right? So if you're getting
rewards that are expected
rewards, right, you basically
you know you're already doing
well at your level, right? So so
the fact that you've had a great
impact and you're in the middle
of the range means that you're
already meeting expectations and
doing well, right? So and
if you look at statistics and
there are some statistics on the
pass on the 70% of employees
actually receive rewards in the
middle of the road, I just want
to be sure, like the word middle
doesn't make you feel like, hey,
I'm in the middle. But the fact
that you are actually meeting
your expectations, you're doing
well, you are delivering as per
expectations at your level,
right? So.
Uh, so it is a good outcome.
This is what I would say, but
obviously there is scope for you
to, you know have exceptional
rewards. Everybody has a scope
to be able to deliver
exceptional rewards beyond that,
right. So yeah, I think that the
second one is just a
rearticulation of that.
It is very important for you to
be aware that you and your
manager understand that you know
these are the priorities set for
you, and that you're meeting
those expectations and doing
well, and you could very well be
in the middle of the range by
meeting that right. So.
That on.
This this is a very common
question that I've seen asked
and the past few years right
that people are on leave of
absence and the question is that
how am I rewards impacted if I
took a leave of absence? If I
was out of maternity leave or
for some personal situation I
didn't work for three months or
leave, how was can I still get
high rewards and the answer is
yes, it's an unambiguous yes,
right? Because the way that it
was a calculated is that that
the your evaluated on the time
you were working in the.
Working officially in the job,
right, those those number of
weeks or months when you weren't
working, they aren't even. They
aren't even considered. So your
impact is still impact based
though. So your impact is
considered based on the time you
were actively working in the
team and if that if the impact
in that duration was high, you
will get high rewards if the
impact was lower, you get lower
rewards. Note that the base.
The bonus eligible salary will
change, though the bonus
eligible salary will change
based on your active involvement
in the team there. There's a
case of leave of absence where
you where you take a leaf
absence without pay for whatever
reason. Then the bonus search
will salary will not include the
salary for the time when you
weren't taking salary for the.
The company.
No, I think the next one is how
much do perspectives influence
impact? There's no answer
written for it.
So I'm gonna say it, but I I
talked to you about the various
parameters that your manager
looks at when deciding your
impact and we talked about the
fact that perspectives that you
worked with your peers or your
stakeholders and other
collaborators do matter.
Uh, so it is an important part
of the assessment. But that
said, like, that's not the only
part. There are many other
things that go into deciding
it's one of the elements and
also for that I would say and I
would repeat that because I
actually said that earlier. Your
manager can essentially distill
that feedback, look at it in the
context of the situation and
choose to interpret it and
things so that they understand
in the situation in which that
may have happened because they
can always situations where if
you work with ten people on all
the 10 people are saying great
things about you.
Might be a specific thing that
happened, and so it's very
important for the manager to
understand the situation and
then look at the feedback and
decide based on the situation
that they're aware of.
All right, so now we we land at
the mids.
That that have come up with the
last few years, right?
So the first myth is that.
My minds how to balance the
budget and my rewards will be
lower than what my manager had
recommended.
So while it is true that orgs
have to balance to a budget.
It's important to understand the
statistic here that 80%, if not
90 percent, 90%. In fact in our
team or more of the employees
get their final rewards as per
the initial recommendation from
their manager. And in fact, if
the final rewards are bit
different, which is slightly
higher or lower and more often
than not it's higher than the
initial recommendation.
So while it's true though, so
so, so while it's true then that
managers and the org has to
balance your budget.
Right. I I wanted to think of
the rewards as I impact lead
discussion as opposed to budget
lead discussion.
OK.
Second, Amit is.
If I can leave of absence, it's
not possibly get high. It was
already spoken about this. It is
possible it just it just depends
on the period you are working
actively in the team. I wasn't
going to again because of
already discussed it.
The third myth is.
There was allocated based on
predetermined distribution.
And employees are competing for
a slot in a particular rewards
bucket.
Puneet touched upon this in the
beginning of his of his section,
right, which is that they used
to be a time when we used to
have a bell curve requirement
for all the employees and him
that time is gone. It's there's
now no requirement to have any
period determined distribution
for any team.
Right. Two, two things to note
though. So why so we do have to
balance the budget at the org
level and there's a need to
differentiate the need to
differentiate doesn't go away.
We still want to.
Reward people with higher awards
for higher impact and
differentiate higher impact from
less high from lower impact.
But but there is no fixed
distribution required by the
team anymore, OK? And the last
myth on this page is actually
get higher rewards because I've
worked more as a result of the
pandemic.
I I at this point is important
to again differentiate between
impact and activity. K impact
determines reward.
Activity does not determine
reward activity if done smartly,
can determine impact and then
impact can determine reward. But
activity directly does not
impact reward, right? So
therefore.
Going back to the basics, higher
impact determines higher reward.
So those the myths that.
We'll have that that HR has has
collected over the years.
And the facts which which
correspond to the Mets.
Umm, any any questions on the on
the chat party? No, no questions
yet. Great. So the last last
part of our of our presentation
is the key take away. This is
short part just to wrap up, yes.
Like so.
Customer.
Sure. So.
So the there are two aspects of
rewards. One is a promos and the
other is their annual rewards,
right? The promos are basically.
People are eligible for promo if
they are, if they are working at
a level consistent with the next
level for a consistent amount of
time.
Right. And and these promos
happened twice here, meteor or
animal rewards?
Right.
The promos have a higher the the
the need for consistency in
promos can span across years for
the higher levels, right? So
rewards is one year, one reward,
but promos for the high levels
need consistency to be able to
save this person's.
Uh consistently working at the
next level and that period can
can require to be more than one
year at the high levels, right?
So that's a promo eligibility
model. Does it answer a
question?
Great.
OK.
Yes.
Yes, but at least.
Yeah, just adding on to the last
question.
What do you exactly mean when
you say higher levels?
High level? Sure. So, so. So the
entry levels is level 59. Pranay
high levels are you know, 6160
two 6364, sixty 67 whatever
right 68.
Uh, and and as you go higher as
as you go high in the level,
they need to have to the the,
the the bar for promo becomes
higher right? So to to get a
promo at a higher level you need
to be able to perform at the
high level for a longer period
of time as opposed to a promo at
a lower level. That's what I'm
in for.
As the answer question.
A uh. Kind of.
Great.
Thank you.
So let me wrap up with the key
takeaways here, right.
The the key take away for you to
understand is that performance
and development and annual
rewards are two sides of the
same coin. That's the main
baseline for the stock, right?
You can I and.
Ohh but performance and
development is an ongoing year
round process where impact
drives reward.
The the key aspects of PND are.
Business impact feedback and
rewards.
Feedback. The tools are connects
101's perspectives.
But it was the tools are
promotions and animal rewards.
The impact is determined whether
by the three circles of impact
your own individual
contribution, how you help
others succeed, and how you can
leverage the work for others in
your own work. So that's the
summary of P&D.
OK.
And then as an employee, you can
influence annual rewards by
influencing the what and the
how.
We can influence the what by
aligning with Amazon
expectations through those same
tools we spoke about earlier
connects one on ones, et cetera.
Align with the manager on what
it means to exceed expectations,
and then look for opportunities
to achieve that to the various
circles of influence.
And then you can control how
that impact is delivered by
demonstrating the Microsoft
cultural values.
By searching and asking for
feedback to continuously fine
tune the way you work and to
learn and grow along the way.
Under my actively seeking
opportunities to leverage others
and contribute to other other
success.
Right. So that's that's a
summary of of the annual reports
process.
I with this we had done. The
next steps are we have some
links over here some some
resources for you. We have an
employee guide.
Is an online training in terms
of what it means to understand
annual rewards. You know I'll we
will share the deck with you
after this talk. So please feel
free to please please feel free
to go to these links if you
invested and and of course we
have ask HR for any questions
that you might have.
Questions.
Sure.
This.
How can I find what is the
target reward?
Yeah, the.
The target reward at each level
is that confidential, Puneet.
I was actually documented on SL
web and come on there still
there right? So that range for
your level is mentioned in the
total rewards page for each
person. The stock range as well
as the.
Ohh, so this talks range for a
given level for a given person.
Is mentioned on the total
rewards page when you go to
total rewards page like
somewhere at the bottom it it
mentions the stock range as well
as bonus percentage range. Merit
however, is like every year it
is determined on basis of
several factors and that
information as far as I know is
never shared.
Broadly, I think it is your
discussion with your manager
which can give you idea whether
you are getting it in the middle
of the range.
Ohh and it is always aligned
with the impact.
Well, that's.
Next one is from Ajay. I
understand it's one year one
reward, some of the initiatives,
some longer just station period
specifically building something
from scratch and then?
I've been.
Thanks dear.
Great question. So, so it's uh,
the key again is to align with
your expectations for your
manager, right? There are it's
it's important to understand
what constitutes success for the
work you're doing within that
one year. In the case of
projects that span across
multiple years, right, it's not
reasonable to expect that
customers will adopt, will have
massive adoption and that's
access to the first year. So the
new align with the manager and
what success means in the first
year, it could be that you hit
some milestone longer way.
We're able to prove some
successes along the way, right.
It's it's very it's it's fairly
unlikely and haven't seen this
happen in the past where you
have one year of work with no
checks and balances along the
way.
Right. So then aligning with a
man on what those checks and
balances are and how to define
success at those checks and
balance checkpoints would be the
way by which you would be
evaluated on your impact for
that one year?
So I think Ajay, on this one,
one additional thing is.
I mean, very often industry
impact is looked at as like
landed impact versus you know
everything else which could also
be impacted. And so in cases
like the one that you're saying
where your landed impact may
happen maybe even the next year,
but you spent almost all of the
year working on that. The
company is not looking at landed
Deepak at all the times right.
There are many other ways in
which you could have created
impact as interim milestones and
those are all absolutely fine
and great logical things for us
to look at.
I I mean example is like you
know your your working on this
this mega consumer feature and
you've almost spent eight to 10
months you've done a lot of user
research, testing
experimentation but the feature
hasn't shipped right. It's gonna
ship next year. So it's not like
the reverse process is waiting
really for the feature to ship
and see how customers are
adopting it to say OK Now I'm
going to measure impact but
there are a lot of other
intermediate impact milestones
that you would have in terms of
the insights that you got in
terms of the way you build
experiments for what those
experiments led you to.
And so all of those are also
contributing to your impact.
I say one other perspective on
this Ajay. Right now the impact
for the other is determined by
looking at.
What you've delivered against
what the opportunity was.
Right. So if if in that year the
opportunity?
Was that you would be able to
hit, you know, some mini interim
milestone three but not ship
then that's your expectation and
then what have you delivered
against this opportunity is how
you would be evaluated if the
opportunity was that you would
ship this feature?
But then, for whatever reason,
it didn't get shipped. Then once
again it would be up to you in a
managed to figure out that was
the opportunity properly
evaluated. Should we recalculate
the opportunity? If not, then
you then you rewarded on an
impact against your opportunity
so that it's very important to
is just another way of saying
that a line on expectations and
your impact is determined based
on expectations.
OK.
Great question.
Mentioned doubling the salary
budget.
Acting the.
Yes, this is a classic question
that we've been getting for the
last several months now.
It's both of us to answer that.
OK, so let me go first. Alright.
Sathya mentioned that the merit
budgets being doubled. Merit
budget includes a bunch of
things. Let me just go over
them, right. It includes
increase in salary. It doesn't.
It doesn't mean that salary
salary is being doubled. Please
understand that it means merit
is being doubled. Right. So the
first to note is that the merit
is being doubled from Microsoft
across entire company and
different.
Countries have different
increases of merit based on
their requirements. OK, India
actually increase the merit of
all the employees last two
years, so third year now. So
sorry increase in 2020-2021 and
this year again is increasing,
right. But given the increase
that you had in the last two
years, will the merit increase
in India be double? Probably not
as per HR? The answer is no, it
will be less than double OK
secondly.
The the minute budget includes
has a bunch of different
components to it.
It it it includes salary and
salary will be increased this
year significantly, but not
nearly doubled.
It includes bonus. It includes
promo budget. So we've we've got
larger promo budgets this year
and includes stock was we have
larger stock ranges.
And includes SSA's special stock
awards. There's a larger budget
of special stock awards
happening this year, right? So
across the companies spend on
all these various components.
The company spend is being
doubled, right?
Again, it doesn't mean that
every comment would be doubled.
It doesn't even mean that even
one will be doubled. It means
it'll all be increased in some
ratio, whether overall Microsoft
merit budget is being doubled.
I think you've already said it.
Just the one thing because you
said this, but the question was
framed like, you know, the
salary being doubled. So please
don't go by what the news
agencies right, like, go with
the official text or WhatsApp
test and turn those salaries are
not being delivered. It was if
you read the mail, it was about
the merit increase that Abhishek
was talking about that string
and then the whole aspect of
various geographies and how that
applies.
That's it.
S stands for Special stock award
K Specialist Stock award is is
is given as a way to
differentiate employees with
high impact as a way to.
Make sure that they understand
the system really appreciates
the impact they have and they
have they've they've had a a
material impact on the business.
Duration to the annual stock
award. Yes, it's in addition to
the annual stock well it it it.
Please know that it's it doesn't
it's it's very selective.
Right. And it's it, yeah.
From the.
Sure, my understanding of it.
I just wanted to kind of double
click on the meeting grades and
just share my understanding and
you one of you can correct me.
Yeah, uh there. So merit
increase has an aspects of the
market.
Right against the market where
we fail, where we fair as an
organization, that's one aspect.
The impact is there and then
where the individual is
positioned right in general in
that particular level. So there
are three to four factors that
goes into in determining the
merit increase and most often
like all these factors in the
sense like the calculation, the
real formula that gets applied,
even managers and my opinion
even Lt is not aware of it, but
these are the code, poor
considerations that goes into
merit increase.
The translates in what you'll
see directly. What you would see
otherwise is essentially the
bonus aspects and the stock
ranges, and in general manager
and from Kathleen's
communication the the stock
range has went up the last two
years, not just this year but
the previous year as well. But
just wanted to kind of share my
understanding with many to
increase and please feel free to
correct or absolutely 100%
correct, correct.
You.
Any more questions in the room
are on the chat.
Basically question on behalf of
when you try.
Yeah.
OK.
Can you share the timelines or
inputs on like people who joined
like Jan to April March this
year or folks at joint post
April 1st, how does the whole
rewards thing work?
Both April 1st people aren't
eligible, right? Yes. So April
1st and April 1st is basically
the cut off date, which means if
you join on April 1st on Fools
Day or after that, then you
basically not eligible for
rewards in that year cycle. But
if you've joined on 31st March
or before then you are eligible
for rewards in that year cycle.
Like Jan to it. Yeah. So I'll.
I'll just I'll just add add a
perspective to what Puneet said,
right. So if you join for
example between Jan and and
Marsh as money Singh, right then
then you will be eligible for
the rewards this year.
Note that a base Elizabeth
example suppose joined in Feb
right, then a base eligible
salary will be a salary from Feb
to June.
And that'll be your your bonus
eligible salary. The bonus will
be a percentage of your salary
from Feb to June, right? And
then the and the opportunity for
impact will be the opportunity
would have had to have impact in
those five months.
And then, uh, you would your
reward will be calculated or
evaluated based on your impact
you've had Visa video
opportunity in these five
months. That's the example of
here a few join on Feb.
If you are in April, on the
other hand, you won't be
eligible for rewards for this
year, but when you come up for
rewards next year, your bonus
eligible salary will be for 15
months.
It'll be April, May, June this
year, and the 12 months the next
year round, right? So please be,
please rest assured that no work
you're doing over here will be
unrewarded, right? Even if you
join April or may your bonus,
your your salary is accruing
towards your bonus eligible
salary for next year.
OK.
Yeah, it's.
Thank you, honey.
Any any more questions online or
in the room?
OK. Thank you, folks.
And hope this helps everyone
demystify the annual rewards
process. OK, thank you.
Thank you.